
Hi, here is a list of the folders and what can be found in them

Please be aware that these parts are still in development so please give feedback via Thew Zenit Camera Club Facebook group, or post comments here.
Improvements/modifications will be made upon the feedback to improve upon them.
Also any suggestions and ideas for new tools or accerssories are always welcome.

Youtube videos showing their use and operation can be found here.
https://www.youtube.com/@wibbley1

The Shutter Curtain Jig
The jig allows the shutter cuertains (blinds) to be re-glued onto the drum and rollers
ensuring they are correctly located on the drum, which is mm critical for correct operation
and keeps them all sqaure.

The jig will be updated and modified based on trials and user feedback.


The Shutter Keep.
This allows the drumm and rollers to be assembled onto the lower bearing plate, making alignment and testing easier.

There are three parts to The Shutter Keep,

The hub sits in the top of the drum, with the dog facing down to engage the second curtain and lock it's rotation against the brass upper part of the drum, as it would when mounted in the camera.
The top plate holds the top of the drum and rollers in position
and the strap can be used to hold the top plate in position. 

Ensure the exposed gear at the base of the drum is rotated fully anti-clockwise when the drum & curtains are in the correct 'fired' position.
This gear stops the drum rotating further, which would otherwise rip the ribbons & blind off th drum.

Tension can now be added to the rollers and operation ofthe shutter checked for operation & correct alignment.

Before removing The Shutter Keep, tension must be removed from the rollers.


The Tension Adjusting Tool.
This works as a socket and fits onto the star lock-nuts that hold the two rollers.
It allows the existing tension of the roller spring to be kept whilst loosening the locknut. Thus a small amout of additional tension can be added or released.

The central hole allows a screwdriver to slide into, engaging with the slot on the end of the roller spindle.
This may need drilling out to fit the shaft diameter of your screwdriver.

On first use, the star nut has to be removed from the camera and heated to no more than 200 degrees. A soldering iron is good for this.
Then place on a non-meltable surface and push the end of the tool onto the nut, so the shape is formed into the plastic.

When cool the nut is removed, leaving the impression.
Note it will be a tigh fit, so may be difficult to remove the nut.

Mirror Cam Keep.
The baffle covering the mirror lift cam has to be removed and this jig then fits in its place.
It allows the cam to be pre-tensioned by rotating the cam. Fitting the jig will hold the cam in the exact correct position.
The shutter drum and rollers can then be installed onto the lower plate.

zenit_Selenium_cover
When the selenium cell is exposed to light, it is constantly moving the meter unit. This leads to wear and aging of the fine wires 
connecting the moving-coil meter, which will eventually fail.
By covering the selenium cell, when the camera is on display for example, this movement is eliminated and wear will be eliminated.

The cover is attached with two magnets. Two files are included, one for 12 x 3mm magnets and the other for 12 x 1mm magnets.
(note the 1mm magnet version has not been tested, as I only have 3mm magnets, if 1mm magnets are not strong enough, thre 1mm magnets can be stacked)
A rubber band could alsoi be used to keep the cover in place.

 Github has no direct means of contact, my email address is
# bill bill github at gmail dot com
(remove sapces & change to @ . )
